doc/HOWTO_Create_a_form.md, before:

# How to create a validated interactive form

This document describes how to set up the JavaScript features of fundraising forms.

## Architecture

Forms use the [Redux][redux] library to handle events and store **internal state**. Internal state can be the form values,
the validity of those values, validation messages, which parts are displayed and hidden, etc. All the state is kept in
the **Store**. To change the state, an **Action** is dispatched to the store, where it is handled by **Reducers** -
[pure functions][pure_function] that have an initial state and the action as input and a changed state as output.

Actions are plain objects with a `type` property and an optional `payload` property. The payload is the data that will 
be processed by the reducer functions. Each action is created with an **Action Creator** - a function that makes sure 
the action object is created correctly with the correct type and payload.

**Form components** are wrappers for form fields that send the form field value to the store with a `CHANGE_CONTENT` action 
and set the form field value when they receive form content updates from the store. This ensures that the store always 
has the current form field values and that form fields that are duplicated across form pages are in sync.  

The **view handler** classes are listening to changes in the state and update the HTML. They are more diverse than 
form components and do not dispatch actions.

For easier HTML updates both view handlers and components get a jQuery object passed in to their factory functions.

**Validation Dispatchers** are also listening to changes in the state. If a value changes, they call a validator and
dispatch a  validator-specific "validation finished" action to the store, which then stores the validation result and 
validation error messages with its reducers. The changed validation state and error messages may trigger view handlers 
that set CSS classes on validated fields and display the error messages.  
Action names for storing validation results follow the naming pattern of `FINISH_XXX_VALIDATION`, 
 their action creation functions follow the pattern `newFinishXXXValidationAction`

![Data flow in the architecture](architecture.svg)

### Reasons for this architecture
- Redux allows for a clear data flow and a central storage of form state instead of state storage that's tied directly to the DOM.
- We use view handlers and components instead of component libraries like [React][react] or [Vue][vue] because we are rendering 
the HTML on the server side and want too keep the option for server-side generated a/b testing. Using our own components 
  decouples HTML manipulation from the actual markup. When the markup changes, view handlers and components can be reused.

## Initializing the form

The library that provides the `WMDE` namespace object must be present (included with a `<script>` tag). See the README on how to generate the library file.

In the form code, insert the following initialization code. Its **TODO** parts will be explained and filled in the following sections.

```JavaScript

var initialFormValues = {% if initialFormValues %}{$ initialFormValues|json_encode|raw $}{% else %}{}{% endif %};

var store = WMDE.Store, // store object
    actions = WMDE.Actions; // action creators namespace
WMDE.StoreUpdates.connectComponentsToStore(
    [
        // TODO create components
    ],
    store
);

WMDE.StoreUpdates.connectValidatorsToStore(
    function ( initialValues ) {
        return [
            // TODO create validators
        ];
    },
    store,
    initialFormValues
 );
         
WMDE.StoreUpdates.connectViewHandlersToStore(
        [
            // TODO add view handler objects
        ],
        store
);

store.dispatch( actions.newInitializeContentAction( initialFormValues ) );

// TODO Connect user events and form values to actions
```

`initialFormValues` is an object with the initial form field values, as expected by the `form_content` reducer.
It can be filled server-side which is the reason why it's embedded in Twig template code that also returns a default
empty object hwen it's not set server side.

### Setting up form components

For every form input element (or group for elements in case of checkboxes and radio buttons), set up a form component 
in components array argument to the `initializeForm` function:
 
```JavaScript
WMDE.StoreUpdates.connectComponentsToStore(
    [
        WMDE.Components.createRadioComponent( store, $( '.payment-type-select' ), 'paymentType' ),
        WMDE.Components.createTextComponent( store, $( '.first-name' ), 'firstName' )
    ],
    store
);
```

Each `createXXXComponent` factory function has three arguments:
1. the store
2. a jQuery object for the form field. 
3. the key for storing the value in the global state (as part of the `formContent` object).

You can find all the available components in [`app/js/lib/form_components.js`](../app/js/lib/form_components.js).

### Setting up validation

Fill the validators function body with instances of `ValidationDispatcher` classes. A `ValidationDispatcher` calls a validation function with values from the `formContent` part of the store and dispatches an action to store the validation result. It only does this when the values from the store change and the validation function returns a value that is not `null`. If the validation function returns `null` that means that the validation was skipped - for example when preconditions for validating are not met.

The `createValidationDispatcher` factory function has two arguments:

1. The **Validator** to call. This must be an Object with a `validate` function.
2. The `initialValues` parameter, which is passed on from the factory function

```JavaScript
WMDE.StoreUpdates.connectValidatorsToStore(
    function ( initialValues ) {
        return [
            WMDE.ReduxValidation.createAmountValidationDispatcher(
                WMDE.FormValidation.createAmountValidator( '{$ basepath $}/validate-amount' ),
                initialValues
            )
        ];
    },
    store,
    initialFormValues
);
```

You can find available validation functions and classes in [`app/lib/form_validation.js`](../app/lib/form_validation.js)

### Setting up the view handlers

Fill out the view handlers array with new instances of view handlers

```JavaScript
WMDE.StoreUpdates.connectViewHandlersToStore(
    [
        {
            viewHandler: WMDE.View.createClearAmountHandler( $( '.amount-select' ), $( '.amount-input' ) ),
            stateKey: 'formContent'
        },
        {
            viewHandler: WMDE.View.createErrorBoxHandler( $( '#validation-errors' ), { amount: 'Betrag' } ),
            stateKey: 'validationMessages'
        }
    ],
    store
);
```

The `viewHandler` key of each object contains an instance of a view handler. The `stateKey` key of each object contains the key of the subsection of the global state that will be passed to the view handler.

For a list of available view handlers see the [`app/js/lib/view_handlers`](../app/js/lib/view_handlers) directory.

### Connecting user events and form values to actions
Add code that binds DOM events to Redux actions. 
Only connect DOM events that aren't handled by the form components. You can find all the available actions in
[`app/js/lib/actions.js`](../app/js/lib/actions.js).

```JavaScript
 $( '#donation-submit1 button' ).click( function () {
    store.dispatch( actions.newNextPageAction() );
} );
```

[redux]: http://redux.js.org/
[pure_function]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pure_function
[react]: https://facebook.github.io/react/
[vue]: http://vuejs.org/

Commit message:

Add "Begin" actions to ValidationDispatchers
All dispatchers that have an asynchronous validator get a
BEGIN_XXX_VALIDATION action to keep track of running HTTP requests.

Adapt the documentation.

doc/HOWTO_Create_a_form.md, after:

# How to create a validated interactive form

This document describes how to set up the JavaScript features of fundraising forms.

## Architecture

Forms use the [Redux][redux] library to handle events and store **internal state**. Internal state can be the form values,
the validity of those values, validation messages, which parts are displayed and hidden, etc. All the state is kept in
the **Store**. To change the state, an **Action** is dispatched to the store, where it is handled by **Reducers** -
[pure functions][pure_function] that have an initial state and the action as input and a changed state as output.

Actions are plain objects with a `type` property and an optional `payload` property. The payload is the data that will 
be processed by the reducer functions. Each action is created with an **Action Creator** - a function that makes sure 
the action object is created correctly with the correct type and payload.

**Form components** are wrappers for form fields that send the form field value to the store with a `CHANGE_CONTENT` action 
and set the form field value when they receive form content updates from the store. This ensures that the store always 
has the current form field values and that form fields that are duplicated across form pages are in sync.  

The **view handler** classes are listening to changes in the state and update the HTML. They are more diverse than 
form components and do not dispatch actions.

For easier HTML updates both view handlers and components get a jQuery object passed in to their factory functions.

**Validation Dispatchers** are also listening to changes in the state. If one of the values they are observing changes, 
they call a validator and dispatch a  validator-specific "validation finished" action to the store, which then stores 
the validation result and validation error messages with its reducers. The changed validation state and error messages 
may trigger view handlers that set CSS classes on validated fields and display the error messages.  

Action names for storing validation results follow the naming pattern of `FINISH_XXX_VALIDATION`,  their action 
creation functions follow the pattern `newFinishXXXValidationAction`

Validation dispatchers where the validator returns an asynchronous result (a Promise), must also dispatch an action with 
the name `BEGIN_XXX_VALIDATION`. This is used by the store to keep track if there are running asynchronous requests. 


![Data flow in the architecture](architecture.svg)

### Reasons for this architecture
- Redux allows for a clear data flow and a central storage of form state instead of state storage that's tied directly to the DOM.
- We use view handlers and components instead of component libraries like [React][react] or [Vue][vue] because we are rendering 
the HTML on the server side and want too keep the option for server-side generated a/b testing. Using our own components 
  decouples HTML manipulation from the actual markup. When the markup changes, view handlers and components can be reused.

## Initializing the form

The library that provides the `WMDE` namespace object must be present (included with a `<script>` tag). See the README on how to generate the library file.

In the form code, insert the following initialization code. Its **TODO** parts will be explained and filled in the following sections.

```JavaScript

var initData = $( '#init-form' ),
    store = WMDE.Store.createDonationStore( WMDE.createInitialStateFromViolatedFields(
        initData.data( 'violatedFields' ),
        initData.data( 'initial-validation-result' ) )
    ),
    actions = WMDE.Actions; // action creators namespace
WMDE.StoreUpdates.connectComponentsToStore(
    [
        // TODO create components
    ],
    store
);

WMDE.StoreUpdates.connectValidatorsToStore(
    function ( initialValues ) {
        return [
            // TODO create validators
        ];
    },
    store,
    initialFormValues
 );
         
WMDE.StoreUpdates.connectViewHandlersToStore(
        [
            // TODO add view handler objects
        ],
        store
);

store.dispatch( actions.newInitializeContentAction( initialFormValues ) );

// TODO Connect user events and form values to actions
```

`initialFormValues` is an object with the initial form field values, as expected by the `form_content` reducer.
It can be filled server-side which is the reason why it's embedded in Twig template code that also returns a default
empty object hwen it's not set server side.

### Setting up form components

For every form input element (or group for elements in case of checkboxes and radio buttons), set up a form component 
in components array argument to the `initializeForm` function:
 
```JavaScript
WMDE.StoreUpdates.connectComponentsToStore(
    [
        WMDE.Components.createRadioComponent( store, $( '.payment-type-select' ), 'paymentType' ),
        WMDE.Components.createTextComponent( store, $( '.first-name' ), 'firstName' )
    ],
    store
);
```

Each `createXXXComponent` factory function has three arguments:
1. the store
2. a jQuery object for the form field. 
3. the key for storing the value in the global state (as part of the `formContent` object).

You can find all the available components in [`app/js/lib/form_components.js`](../app/js/lib/form_components.js).

### Setting up validation

Fill the validators function body with instances of `ValidationDispatcher` classes. A `ValidationDispatcher` calls a validation function with values from the `formContent` part of the store and dispatches an action to store the validation result. It only does this when the values from the store change and the validation function returns a value that is not `null`. If the validation function returns `null` that means that the validation was skipped - for example when preconditions for validating are not met.

The `createValidationDispatcher` factory function has two arguments:

1. The **Validator** to call. This must be an Object with a `validate` function.
2. The `initialValues` parameter, which is passed on from the factory function

```JavaScript
WMDE.StoreUpdates.connectValidatorsToStore(
    function ( initialValues ) {
        return [
            WMDE.ReduxValidation.createAmountValidationDispatcher(
                WMDE.FormValidation.createAmountValidator( '{$ basepath $}/validate-amount' ),
                initialValues
            )
        ];
    },
    store,
    initialFormValues
);
```

You can find available validation functions and classes in [`app/lib/form_validation.js`](../app/lib/form_validation.js)

### Setting up the view handlers

Fill out the view handlers array with new instances of view handlers

```JavaScript
WMDE.StoreUpdates.connectViewHandlersToStore(
    [
        {
            viewHandler: WMDE.View.createClearAmountHandler( $( '.amount-select' ), $( '.amount-input' ) ),
            stateKey: 'formContent'
        },
        {
            viewHandler: WMDE.View.createErrorBoxHandler( $( '#validation-errors' ), { amount: 'Betrag' } ),
            stateKey: 'validationMessages'
        }
    ],
    store
);
```

The `viewHandler` key of each object contains an instance of a view handler. The `stateKey` key of each object contains the key of the subsection of the global state that will be passed to the view handler.

For a list of available view handlers see the [`app/js/lib/view_handlers`](../app/js/lib/view_handlers) directory.

### Connecting user events and form values to actions
Add code that binds DOM events to Redux actions. 
Only connect DOM events that aren't handled by the form components. You can find all the available actions in
[`app/js/lib/actions.js`](../app/js/lib/actions.js).

```JavaScript
 $( '#donation-submit1 button' ).click( function () {
    store.dispatch( actions.newNextPageAction() );
} );
```

[redux]: http://redux.js.org/
[pure_function]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pure_function
[react]: https://facebook.github.io/react/
[vue]: http://vuejs.org/
