doc/HOWTO_Use_Xdebug_and_PHPStorm.md, before:

# How to use XDebug in the Docker environment with PHPStorm 

## Install the required PHPStorm Plugins
In the "Plugins" section of the PHPStorm preferences make sure that you have installed the following Plugins:
* Docker Integration
* PHP Docker
* PHP Remote Interpreter

## Configure the PHP remote interpreter
In the PHPStorm preferences, go to "Languages & Frameworks -> PHP". Click on the three dots for the "CLI interpreter".

![CLI Interpreter settings](images/php_interpreter.png)

A dialog with the configured interpreters will pop up. Click on the plus sign in the upper left to add a new remote interpreter. Choose "Docker Compose". Click on the three dots for "Configuration file(s)" and add the `docker-compose.debug.yml` file. After that, you can choose the container name with XDebug in it. For the example project it's `app_debug`.

![Configure Remote PHP Interpreter](images/remote_interpreter_config.png)

After you clicked "OK", the interpreter will show up in the list of interpreters. To get around the bugs of [PHPStorm overriding the XDEBUG_CONFIG setting](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/WI-38329) and [PHPStorm not setting environment variables](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/WI-41043), you need to add a custom configuration setting in the "Configuration options". Click on the three dots and enter `xdebug.remote_host` as name and your IP address as value.

![PHP Interpreters](images/remote_interpreter.png)

To switch between environments you can add another interpreter that uses `docker-compose.yml` without `docker-compose.debug.yml`.

## Add the server name
You need to add the server name you configured in `PHP_IDE_CONFIG` the NGinX configuration. In the PHPStorm preferences, go to "Languages & Frameworks -> PHP -> Server". Click the plus sign in the upper left corner to create a new server.

![PHP Server configuration](images/php_server.png)

Enter `spenden.wikimedia.de` as the server name, `8082` as the port and check the "Use Path mappings" box. Map your local path to `/usr/share/nginx/www/spenden.wikimedia.de/current/`

## Add PHPUnit configuration
In the PHPStorm preferences, go to "Languages & Frameworks -> PHP -> Server". Click the plus sign in the upper left corner to create a new PHPUnit configuration. Choose "PHPUnit by remote interpreter". After you created it, make sure that the path mapping is correct, check "Use Composer autoloader" and check if the "Path to script" points to the path-mapped autoloader file.

![PHPUnit configuration](images/phpunit_config.png)

## Testing the PHPStorm setup

First, choose "Run -> Start Listening to XDebug Connections" from the PHPStorm menu.

To test XDebug in the server environment, start the environment on the command line and add a breakpoint in your code. Go to the web site and see if the execution stops at the breakpoint.

To test XDebug in the CLI/PHPUnit environment, open a runnable PHP file (unit test or CLI command), set a breakpoint in your code and choose "Debug" from its context menu.

Commit message:

Fix phpunit configuration code coverage whitelist (#1288)
* Fix phpunit configuration code coverage whitelist

* Improve code coverage config

Use `processUncoveredFilesFromWhitelist` in PHPUnit configuration to
enable XDebug coverage generation.

Since processUncoveredFilesFromWhitelist is incompatible with "including
files that need initialized variables outside of the file", convert
routes.php and bootstrap.php to static classes.

* Improve Xdebug configuration documentation

doc/HOWTO_Use_Xdebug_and_PHPStorm.md, after:

# How to use XDebug in the Docker environment with PHPStorm

## Install the required PHPStorm Plugins
In the "Plugins" section of the PHPStorm preferences make sure that you have installed the following Plugins:
* Docker Integration
* PHP Docker
* PHP Remote Interpreter

## Configure the PHP remote interpreter
In the PHPStorm preferences, go to "Languages & Frameworks -> PHP". Click on the three dots for the "CLI interpreter".

![CLI Interpreter settings](images/php_interpreter.png)

A dialog with the configured interpreters will pop up. Click on the plus sign in the upper left to add a new remote interpreter. Choose "Docker Compose". Click on the three dots for "Configuration file(s)" and add the `docker-compose.debug.yml` file. After that, you can choose the container name with XDebug in it. For the example project it's `app_debug`.

![Configure Remote PHP Interpreter](images/remote_interpreter_config.png)

After you clicked "OK", the interpreter will show up in the list of interpreters. To get around the bugs of [PHPStorm overriding the XDEBUG_CONFIG setting](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/WI-38329) and [PHPStorm not setting environment variables](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/WI-41043), you need to add a custom configuration setting in the "Configuration options". Click on the three dots and enter `xdebug.remote_host` as name and your IP address as value.

![PHP Interpreters](images/remote_interpreter.png)

To switch between environments you can add another interpreter that uses `docker-compose.yml` without `docker-compose.debug.yml`.

## Add the server name
You need to add the server name you configured in `PHP_IDE_CONFIG` the NGinX configuration. In the PHPStorm preferences, go to "Languages & Frameworks -> PHP -> Server". Click the plus sign in the upper left corner to create a new server.

![PHP Server configuration](images/php_server.png)

Enter `spenden.wikimedia.de` as the server name, `8082` as the port and check the "Use Path mappings" box. Map your local path to `/usr/share/nginx/www/spenden.wikimedia.de/current/`

## Add PHPUnit configuration
In the PHPStorm preferences, go to "Languages & Frameworks -> PHP -> Testing Framework". Click the plus sign in the upper left corner to create a new PHPUnit configuration. Choose "PHPUnit by remote interpreter". After you created it, make sure that the path mapping is correct, check "Use Composer autoloader" and check if the "Path to script" points to the path-mapped autoloader file.

Also check the "Default configuration file" and use the path `/usr/share/nginx/www/spenden.wikimedia.de/current/phpunit.xml.dist`

![PHPUnit configuration](images/phpunit_config.png)

## Testing the PHPStorm setup

First, choose "Run -> Start Listening to XDebug Connections" from the PHPStorm menu.

To test XDebug in the server environment, start the environment on the command line and add a breakpoint in your code. Go to the web site and see if the execution stops at the breakpoint.

To test XDebug in the CLI/PHPUnit environment, open a runnable PHP file (unit test or CLI command), set a breakpoint in your code and choose "Debug" from its context menu.
